# Docker reference
To use this reference you will need to download Docker Desktop from this [link](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/windows/install/).

# Terminology


## Container

<br>

A container is a standard unit of software that packages up code and all its dependencies so the application runs quickly and reliably from one computing environment to another. 

<br>

## Container image

<br>

It is a lightweight, standalone, executable package of software that includes everything needed to run an application: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries and settings.


Container images become containers at runtime.

<br>

## Dockerfile
<br>

It's simply a text-based script of instructions that is used to create a container image. Example of a simple image:

```docker
FROM ubuntu:18.04
COPY . /app
RUN make /app
CMD python /app/app.py
```
Each instruction creates one layer:

- `FROM` creates a layer from the ubuntu:18.04 Docker image.
- `COPY` adds files from your Docker client’s current directory.
- `RUN` builds your application with make.
- `CMD` is the default command to run when starting a container from this image.

<br>

### Building the container image
<br>

We will use the following command in the terminal:
```
docker build -t image_name .
```

- `-t` flag tags our image as `ìmage_name`.
- The . at the end of the docker build command tells that Docker should look for the Dockerfile in the current directory.
<br>

### Run a container given certain image container
<br>
```
docker run -d -p <host port>:<container port> docker/image-name
```

* `-d` run the container in detached mode(in the background)
* `-p` <host port>:<container port> map the host port to the container port
* docker/image_name is the image to use

<br>

### Checking status of containers running
<br>

The command  `docker ps` shows the information of our container running.
<br>

### Stop the container
<br>

To stop the container type `docker stop <the-container-id>`. The ID is shown with `docker ps`.
<br>

### Remove the container
<br>

To remove the container type `docker rm <the-container-id>`. To stop and remove the container you can add the force flag `-f`.
<br>

# Manage data in Docker
<br>
By default all files created inside a container are stored on a writable container layer. This means that:

- The data doesn’t persist when that container no longer exists, and it can be difficult to get the data out of the container if another process needs it.

Docker has two options for containers to store files in the host machine, so that the files are persisted even after the container stops: volumes, and bind mounts. 
<br>

## Container volumes
<br>

File systems mounted on Docker containers to preserve data generated by the running container. 
<br>

### Create volume
<br>

To create a volume type `docker volume create volume_name`
<br>

### Delete volume
<br>

To create a volume type `docker volume prune volume_name`
<br>

## Bind mounts
<br>

File or folder stored anywhere on the container host filesystem, the bind mount is mounted into a running container. 
<br>

# References:

Getting started [tutorial](https://github.com/docker/getting-started).

Docker [documentation](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container).


